## STRIDE_project_template
Setting up a template repository to manage STRIDE projects
# Motivation
The purpose of this project is to quantify the potential need for charging and refueling infrastructure for electric and hydrogen (H2) commercial vehicles, collectively addressed as zero emission vehicle refueling infrastructure for trucks(ZEVRI-T). These trucks are called ZEVs (zero emission vehicles) as they have no tail pipe emissions. There is tremendous interest from the state transportation agency to identify where to site these refueling (and charging infrastructure) and how should they be sized (rated capacity in kWh or cuft of H2). Once the needs are quantified, the next step is to spatially present these potential sites for refueling infrastructure. The spatio-temporal resolution is at a transportation analysis (TAZ) level. TAZ are smaller than zip codes but can be bigger or smaller than census tracts in terms of area. The project is entirely quantitative analysis and does not involve any hypothesis testing. 

# Data Source
The data was shared to our research institute by the CalTrans (California Department of Transportation). CalTrans periodically builds and develops there statewide travel demand model by vehicle type (cars, trucks, transit etc). They also do the forecasting for future years leading up to 2040. The outputs of this model are the trips generated by vehicle type between origin and destination at a TAZ level on a typical fall weekday on a hourly basis. The dataset has all the trips generated by purpose for 2010, 2015, 2020, 2035 and 2040. CalTrans shared the outputs (trips by vehicle , purpose, origin and destination and time of day) along with some relevant inputs that they used like sociodemographic changes between now and 2040. Each of these dataset is fairly huge for the trucks (roughly 10-12 million trips/rows)
# Test Data
For the test data, I plan to pick one year (2010) and focus on a subset of the state, the southern california region (SCAG). If the data is huge and not suited for quick analysis, I will further subset it and pick few counties and work on that as a test data. 

The raw data is stored on my google drive folder and it is already cleaned for analysis. 
